# coincafe
Jorge Contreras
 
The Humane Interface 
By: Jef Raskin
 
     The book can be summarized by offering experienced insight into the design and underlying psychology of interface design. From research in the division of human abilities between our cognitive conscious and our cognitive unconscious is that we have one locus of attention. This locus of attention and our familiarity with the interface design work together in forming habitual interaction between the user and the interface. Perceptions do not automatically become memories and most perceptions are lost after some time. As a designer of interfaces we can not assume that a user will remember information that was just shown to them due to the rapid decay of sense perception by the user. When creating interfaces we must facilitate the process of both habit formation that does not impede the user and to allow users to develop habits that increase productivity of their work. When it comes to increasing productivity for the user we must take into account the information efficiency of the interface, which is the minimum amount of information necessary to do a task, divided by the amount of information that has to be supplied by the user. The understanding that people have a single locus of attention allows the designer to exploit this by having the user’s attention fixed while making changes to the system elsewhere. As a designer try avoiding customization as this may lead to increase complication in the design and user, and takes time away from the user on the task at hand. Continuing, we must keep in mind the beginners and expert users of this system interface and design one interface that caters to both. There are elementary operations that a user performs in various combinations that a user will use in order interact with your interface such as indicate, select, activate, and modify. As a designer we must aid in these elementary operations such as highlighting a single object pointed to by the cursor, without clicking as a form of clear indication. The client wants an interface with at most marginal differences from current practices. Users have an inherent tendency to remember position and landmarks and this can be used in interface design by allowing the user to view large areas of your design, then having them select the one they desired, and finally leaning forward to see their option. Furthermore, icons are now used in most interface design and aid in identifying objects. When using icons it is good practice to find distinguishable pictures for the icons so that they do not look the same, and icons should be accompanied by a text label in order to offer clear indication to the user. Jef Raskin book The Humane Interface offers extraordinary insight into making products with increase range of applicability and decreasing hassel to the end user. 
